README.md, before:

# First run

Clone kpi and kobocat repos in this directory

1. Build `docker compose build --pull`
1. Start postgres `docker compose up postgres` this ensures it has time to initialize
1. Migrate kobocat `docker compose run --rm kobocat ./manage.py migrate`
1. Migrate kpi `docker compose run --rm kpi ./manage.py migrate`
1. Make user `docker compose run --rm kpi ./manage.py createsuperuser`
1. Edit `/etc/hosts` and add `127.0.0.1 kf.kobo.local kc.kobo.local ee.kobo.local`
1. Run `npm i --force` in the kpi directory.

# Start

1. `docker compose up`
1. Run frontend (in own tab) `cd kpi` and `npm run watch`

- KPI http://kf.kobo.local
- EE http://ee.kobo.local:8005 (or localhost:8005)

## Run with mailhog for graphical email testing

Mailhog will capture all emails sent, regardless of to address.

1. Start mailhog `docker compose -f docker-compose.mailhog.yml up`
2. Edit `docker-compose.yml` (or copy to `docker-compose.override.yml` to preserve original file) and uncomment `EMAIL_BACKEND: 'django.core.mail.backends.smtp.EmailBackend'`

Go to http://localhost:8025

## Python testing

1. Run from inside a container `docker compose exec -it kpi bash` (Assumes application is already running)
2. Install dev dependencies if not already done `pip install -r dependencies/pip/dev_requirements.txt`
3. Run Pytest  `pytest` or to run on a specific directory and reuse the DB (as a speedup) `pytest  --reuse-db kobo/apps/foo`.

# Rebuild docker images

If python packages in kpi or kobocat change, you can build like this

`docker compose build --pull`

Run migrate commands when new migrations are added

# Destroy everything and start over

Useful to remake databases.

1. `docker compose down`

Run first run steps again

## Text Editor lint, type checking, and type inference (Optional)

Many editors and cli tools can do type checking and type inference. However, it requires setting up a virtual environment.

1. Install Python 3 dependencies. For Ubuntu this is `apt install python3-dev python3-venv`
1. Create Python virtual environment `python3 -m venv env`
1. Activate environment `source env/bin/activate`
1. Install packages `pip install -r dependencies/pip/dev_requirements.txt`

These are not required but can improve the experience of editing code. Most text editors cannot read these dependencies from the docker container itself.

Commit message:

Add scary warning prior to making repo public

README.md, after:

# :warning: ATTENTION - UNSUPPORTED

This repository is used internally by some KoboToolbox developers and shared here in the hope that it may be helpful to others.
There is ABSOLUTELY NO SUPPORT offered for this code: not in the issue tracker, not in the discussion forum, not via email, not anywhere! You have been warned.
If you are seeking to run your own instance of KoboToolbox, you should look at https://github.com/kobotoolbox/kobo-install/, or, for large installs, consider Kubernetes: https://github.com/kobotoolbox/kobo-helm-chart

# First run

Clone kpi and kobocat repos in this directory

1. Build `docker compose build --pull`
1. Start postgres `docker compose up postgres` this ensures it has time to initialize
1. Migrate kobocat `docker compose run --rm kobocat ./manage.py migrate`
1. Migrate kpi `docker compose run --rm kpi ./manage.py migrate`
1. Make user `docker compose run --rm kpi ./manage.py createsuperuser`
1. Edit `/etc/hosts` and add `127.0.0.1 kf.kobo.local kc.kobo.local ee.kobo.local`
1. Run `npm i --force` in the kpi directory.

# Start

1. `docker compose up`
1. Run frontend (in own tab) `cd kpi` and `npm run watch`

- KPI http://kf.kobo.local
- EE http://ee.kobo.local:8005 (or localhost:8005)

## Run with mailhog for graphical email testing

Mailhog will capture all emails sent, regardless of to address.

1. Start mailhog `docker compose -f docker-compose.mailhog.yml up`
2. Edit `docker-compose.yml` (or copy to `docker-compose.override.yml` to preserve original file) and uncomment `EMAIL_BACKEND: 'django.core.mail.backends.smtp.EmailBackend'`

Go to http://localhost:8025

## Python testing

1. Run from inside a container `docker compose exec -it kpi bash` (Assumes application is already running)
2. Install dev dependencies if not already done `pip install -r dependencies/pip/dev_requirements.txt`
3. Run Pytest  `pytest` or to run on a specific directory and reuse the DB (as a speedup) `pytest  --reuse-db kobo/apps/foo`.

# Rebuild docker images

If python packages in kpi or kobocat change, you can build like this

`docker compose build --pull`

Run migrate commands when new migrations are added

# Destroy everything and start over

Useful to remake databases.

1. `docker compose down`

Run first run steps again

## Text Editor lint, type checking, and type inference (Optional)

Many editors and cli tools can do type checking and type inference. However, it requires setting up a virtual environment.

1. Install Python 3 dependencies. For Ubuntu this is `apt install python3-dev python3-venv`
1. Create Python virtual environment `python3 -m venv env`
1. Activate environment `source env/bin/activate`
1. Install packages `pip install -r dependencies/pip/dev_requirements.txt`

These are not required but can improve the experience of editing code. Most text editors cannot read these dependencies from the docker container itself.
